Create Blog Post “background-blur-replace-using-the-vonage-video-api” (#2314)
Nexmo/deved-platform: content/blog/en/background-blur-replace-using-the-vonage-video-api.md

---

> title: How to Avoid Awkward Conversations About Your Home During Video Calls

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: How to Blur and Replace your Background Image using Vonage Video API
```

Reviewer 2: Alternative: "Blurring for Clarity: How to Avoid Awkward Conversations About Your Home"

description: Learn how to apply background blur & replace in your Vonage Video applications
author: sina-madani
published: true
published_at: 2022-12-07T10:54:26.180Z
updated_at: 2022-12-07T10:54:26.204Z
category: tutorial
tags:
  - video-api
  - javascript
comments: true
spotlight: false
redirect: ""
canonical: ""
outdated: false
replacement_url: ""
---

> It goes without saying that virtual meetings have a different vibe from in-person meetings. One of many reasons for this is a lack of a shared environment. Since everyone's location (and thus, what's going on in their background) is different, it can be a source of distraction for participants. Moreover, participants may want to protect their privacy during video calls without having to relocate, which may not always be practical.

Reviewer: I tried to make this section less wordy. 

```suggestion
Virtual meetings have a different vibe from in-person meetings. One of the many reasons for this is the need for a shared environment. Since everyone's location (and thus, what's going on in their background) is different, it can distract participants. Moreover, participants may want to protect their privacy during video calls without relocating, which may only sometimes be practical.
```

One solution is to blur the background of participants so that their face is in focus. This retains their natural background environment whilst reducing the detail to make it less distracting. Another solution is to replace the background with another image, which can then be applied to some or all participants. The advantage of this approach is that an appropriate background setting can be used depending on the tone and nature of the meeting. For example, if a video call is a meeting between people from different organizations, a logo or standardized background can be applied to each of the organization’s representatives, for clarity.

Both of these solutions can be easily applied to your Vonage video application by adding just a few lines of code. This article will walk you through how to apply these filters with a step-by-step guide using a minimal example.

> ## Pre-requisites

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Prerequisites
```

> Credentials will be needed for the demo application to work. Log into or create a [Vonage Video account](https://www.tokbox.com/account) and then click 'Projects' in the left menu. You can select a previous custom project or create a new one. Navigate to your project - the page will look something like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Log into or create a [Vonage Video account](https://www.tokbox.com/account) and click 'Projects' in the left menu. You can select a previous custom project or create a new one. Navigate to your project - the page will look something like this:
```

![OpenTok project page](/content/blog/how-to-avoid-awkward-conversations-about-your-home-during-video-calls/opentok-project.jpeg)

> Make a note of the Project API Key. Scroll down to the "Project Tools" section (near the bottom of the page), and click "Create Session ID". Copy this, and paste it into the next section to generate a token. For the role, select "Publisher", and the expiration time to 24 hours (or however long you need the session). You will need the Project API Key, Session ID, and Token for this exercise.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Make a note of the Project API Key. Scroll down to the "Project Tools" section (near the bottom of the page), and click "Create Session ID." Copy this, and paste it into the next section to generate a token. For the role, select "Publisher" and the expiration time to 24 hours (or however long you need the session). You will need the Project API Key, Session ID, and Token for this exercise.
```

## Create a Skeleton App

> Create a directory to work in and navigate to it. Then create the application files, like so:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a directory to work in and navigate to it. Then create the application files like so:
```

Load the `index.js` and `index.css` files in `index.html` along with the [OpenTok.js SDK](https://tokbox.com/developer/sdks/js/):

```html
<html>
<head>
    <title>Vonage Video Background Filter demo</title>
    <link href="index.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css">
    <script src="https://static.opentok.com/v2/js/opentok.min.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
    <div id="videos">
        <div id="subscriber"></div>
        <div id="publisher"></div>
    </div>
    <script type="text/javascript" src="index.js"></script>
</body>
</html>
```

Add the following to your `index.css` file:

```css
body, html {
    background-color: gray;
    height: 100%;
}

#videos {
    position: relative;
    width: 100%;
    height: 100%;
    margin-left: auto;
    margin-right: auto;
}

#subscriber {
    position: absolute;
    left: 0;
    top: 0;
    width: 100%;
    height: 100%;
    z-index: 10;
}

#publisher {
    position: absolute;
    width: 640px;
    height: 480px;
    bottom: 10px;
    left: 10px;
    z-index: 100;
    border: 3px solid white;
    border-radius: 3px;
}
```

> Now if you open `index.html` with a browser and allow access to your webcam and microphone, you should see your camera video feed. Please check your code and Token / Session ID / API Key values if this is not the case. You can get more insight into the issue from the browser's developer console (usually accessed by pressing F12).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, if you open `index.html` with a browser and allow access to your webcam and microphone, you should see your camera video feed. Please check your code and Token / Session ID / API Key values if this is not the case. You can get more insight into the issue from the browser's developer console (usually accessed by pressing F12).
```

}
```

If your application logic requires the filter to be applied at a later point (for example, in response to an event), you can achieve this like so:

```javascript
publisher.applyVideoFilter({
  type: 'backgroundBlur',
  blurStrength: 'high'
});
```

To remove the filter at some point, you can call `publisher.clearVideoFilter()`. Add the following to your `index.js` file to clear the effect after 8 seconds:

```javascript
setTimeout(() => publisher.clearVideoFilter(), 8000);
```

### Changing the background image

To change the background, use the following configuration for the `videoFilter`:

```javascript
if (OT.hasMediaProcessorSupport()) {
  publisherOptions.videoFilter = {
    type: 'backgroundReplacement',
    backgroundImgUrl: 'https://example.com/image.jpg'
  };
}
```

### Limitations and Troubleshooting

Note that you cannot use both image replacement and background blur together. If you encounter issues with the background image not being applied, this could be due to [CORS](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/CORS). That is a server issue, so try an image from another website. Note that the image needs to be a BMP, PNG, JPEG, or GIF.

## Next Steps

> Now that you have a working example, you can customise the appearance by editing `index.css` if you wish, and build further logic into your application. For a production application, you will need to automate the acquisition of your API Key, Token, and Session ID from the server. Check out our [tutorials](https://tokbox.com/developer/tutorials/web/basic-video-chat/#next) for further reading.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that you have a working example, you can customize the appearance by editing `index.css` if you wish and build further logic into your application. For a production application, you will need to automate the acquisition of your API Key, Token, and Session ID from the server. Check out our [tutorials](https://tokbox.com/developer/tutorials/web/basic-video-chat/#next) for further reading.
```
